docs/source/usage.rst, before:

Usage
=====

As mentioned in the :doc:`quickstart </quickstart>` page, EO Canvas allows you to use both high-level objects or
to interact with the API in a more direct way.

The two fundamental concepts of the Serverless Functions service are *processes* and *jobs*.
A *process* describes either a SNAP or a Data Tailor computation.
A *job*, on the other hand, is a submission of a process to the API, and it's used to keep track of
its state, to retrieve the application logs and, finally, to download the results.

    .. note::
        Users are not limited to use their local hard-drive to download the results, nor the HDA as source of data.
        Look at the :doc:`external storage </external>` page to learn more about it.


To interact directly with the API, you can use the :class:`eocanvas.API` class:

.. code-block:: python

    from eocanvas import API, Credentials

    # Without any argument, this will automatically load your credentials from the ~/.hdarc file
    api = API()

    # but it's possible to pass username and password on the fly as well
    api = API(Credentials("[username]", "[password]"))

    processes = api.get_processes()
    print(processes)

    >> [Process(api=<eocanvas.api.API object at 0x7facd05a97e0>, process_id='snap-function', ...]

The available processes are predefined. New tools or custom functions might be added in future.

Process inputs must be configured before submitting them. **SNAP** and **Data Tailor** has similar but different sets of inputs.

SNAP
----
A **SNAP** process is configured through an XML object called a `Graph`. Such graph contains nodes for the inputs.

Please refer to `official SNAP documentation <https://step.esa.int/main/doc/online-help/>`_ for further details.

Since SNAP is being executed remotely, those inputs are defined as placeholders and then passed in through :class:`eocanvas.api.Input` objects.

Extra configuration can be added using the :class:`eocanvas.api.ConfigOption` class.

**EO Canvas** handles graphs through an embedded version of `Snapista <https://snap-contrib.github.io/snapista/>`_.
*Snapista* requires a local SNAP instance to work, to which it can submit the graph.
The embedded version instead only allows to programmatically build or load the graph from an XML file. It also encodes it before it gets submitted to the API.

Generally speaking, having pre-cooked graphs is a better option. The `demo` directory contains some examples.

As already described in the :doc:`quickstart </quickstart>` page, a graph instance can be created by loading a local XML file:

.. code-block:: python

    from eocanvas.snap.graph import Graph

    graph = Graph.from_uri("olci_binding.xml")


Please note how the input node has been defined:

.. code-block:: xml

    <node id="Read">
      <operator>Read</operator>
      <sources/>
        <parameters class="com.bc.ceres.binding.dom.XppDomElement">
        <useAdvancedOptions>false</useAdvancedOptions>
        <file>$img1</file>
        <copyMetadata>true</copyMetadata>
        <bandNames>Oa01_reflectance,Oa01_reflectance_err,Oa02_reflectance,Oa02_reflectance_err,Oa03_reflectance,Oa03_reflectance_err,Oa04_reflectance,Oa04_reflectance_err,Oa05_reflectance,Oa05_reflectance_err,Oa06_reflectance,Oa06_reflectance_err,Oa07_reflectance,Oa07_reflectance_err,Oa08_reflectance,Oa08_reflectance_err,Oa09_reflectance,Oa09_reflectance_err,Oa10_reflectance,Oa10_reflectance_err,Oa11_reflectance,Oa11_reflectance_err,Oa12_reflectance,Oa12_reflectance_err,Oa16_reflectance,Oa16_reflectance_err,Oa17_reflectance,Oa17_reflectance_err,Oa18_reflectance,Oa18_reflectance_err,Oa21_reflectance,Oa21_reflectance_err,CHL_NN,CHL_NN_err,CHL_OC4ME,CHL_OC4ME_err,altitude,latitude,longitude,detector_index,FWHM_band_1,FWHM_band_2,FWHM_band_3,FWHM_band_4,FWHM_band_5,FWHM_band_6,FWHM_band_7,FWHM_band_8,FWHM_band_9,FWHM_band_10,FWHM_band_11,FWHM_band_12,FWHM_band_13,FWHM_band_14,FWHM_band_15,FWHM_band_16,FWHM_band_17,FWHM_band_18,FWHM_band_19,FWHM_band_20,FWHM_band_21,frame_offset,lambda0_band_1,lambda0_band_2,lambda0_band_3,lambda0_band_4,lambda0_band_5,lambda0_band_6,lambda0_band_7,lambda0_band_8,lambda0_band_9,lambda0_band_10,lambda0_band_11,lambda0_band_12,lambda0_band_13,lambda0_band_14,lambda0_band_15,lambda0_band_16,lambda0_band_17,lambda0_band_18,lambda0_band_19,lambda0_band_20,lambda0_band_21,solar_flux_band_1,solar_flux_band_2,solar_flux_band_3,solar_flux_band_4,solar_flux_band_5,solar_flux_band_6,solar_flux_band_7,solar_flux_band_8,solar_flux_band_9,solar_flux_band_10,solar_flux_band_11,solar_flux_band_12,solar_flux_band_13,solar_flux_band_14,solar_flux_band_15,solar_flux_band_16,solar_flux_band_17,solar_flux_band_18,solar_flux_band_19,solar_flux_band_20,solar_flux_band_21,ADG443_NN,ADG443_NN_err,IWV,IWV_err,PAR,PAR_err,KD490_M07,KD490_M07_err,TSM_NN,TSM_NN_err,A865,A865_err,T865,T865_err,WQSF_lsb,WQSF_msb</bandNames>
        <pixelRegion>0,0,4865,4091</pixelRegion>
        <maskNames>WQSF_lsb_INVALID,WQSF_lsb_WATER,WQSF_lsb_LAND,WQSF_lsb_CLOUD,WQSF_lsb_TURBID_ATM,WQSF_lsb_CLOUD_AMBIGUOUS,WQSF_lsb_CLOUD_MARGIN,WQSF_lsb_SNOW_ICE,WQSF_lsb_INLAND_WATER,WQSF_lsb_COASTLINE,WQSF_lsb_TIDAL,WQSF_lsb_COSMETIC,WQSF_lsb_SUSPECT,WQSF_lsb_HISOLZEN,WQSF_lsb_SATURATED,WQSF_lsb_MEGLINT,WQSF_lsb_HIGHGLINT,WQSF_lsb_WHITECAPS,WQSF_lsb_ADJAC,WQSF_lsb_WV_FAIL,WQSF_lsb_PAR_FAIL,WQSF_lsb_AC_FAIL,WQSF_lsb_OC4ME_FAIL,WQSF_lsb_OCNN_FAIL,WQSF_lsb_KDM_FAIL,WQSF_lsb_BPAC_ON,WQSF_lsb_WHITE_SCATT,WQSF_lsb_LOWRW,WQSF_lsb_HIGHRW,WQSF_msb_ANNOT_ANGSTROM,WQSF_msb_ANNOT_AERO_B,WQSF_msb_ANNOT_ABSO_D,WQSF_msb_ANNOT_ACLIM,WQSF_msb_ANNOT_ABSOA,WQSF_msb_ANNOT_MIXR1,WQSF_msb_ANNOT_DROUT,WQSF_msb_ANNOT_TAU06,WQSF_msb_RWNEG_O1,WQSF_msb_RWNEG_O2,WQSF_msb_RWNEG_O3,WQSF_msb_RWNEG_O4,WQSF_msb_RWNEG_O5,WQSF_msb_RWNEG_O6,WQSF_msb_RWNEG_O7,WQSF_msb_RWNEG_O8,WQSF_msb_RWNEG_O9,WQSF_msb_RWNEG_O10,WQSF_msb_RWNEG_O11,WQSF_msb_RWNEG_O12,WQSF_msb_RWNEG_O16,WQSF_msb_RWNEG_O17,WQSF_msb_RWNEG_O18,WQSF_msb_RWNEG_O21,WQSF_REFLECTANCE_RECOM,WQSF_CHL_OC4ME_RECOM,WQSF_KD490_M07_RECOM,WQSF_PAR_RECOM,WQSF_W_AER_RECOM,WQSF_CHL_NN_RECOM,WQSF_TSM_NN_RECOM,WQSF_ADG443_NN_RECOM,WQSF_IWV_RECOM</maskNames>
      </parameters>
    </node>

The *$img1* is an arbitrary placeholder and can be used to further configure the input:

.. code-block:: python

    from eocanvas.api import Input, Config, ConfigOption

    inputs = Input(key="img1", url="http://gateway.prod.wekeo2.eu/hda-broker/api/v1/dataaccess/download/66b37374b6a632e1f39b3058")
    config = Config(key="img1", options=ConfigOption(uncompress=True, sub_path="xfdumanifest.xml"))

Note that `img1` has been used as the key to configure the input. The dollar sign is only required in the graph.

The `url` parameter is a valid WEkEO HDA download link and can be retrieved by using the HDA Python client:

.. code-block:: python

    from hda import Client

    client = Client()

    query = {
        "dataset_id": "EO:EUM:DAT:SENTINEL-3:OL_2_WFR___",
        "dtstart": "2024-07-05T09:28:00.000Z",
        "dtend": "2024-07-05T09:30:00.000Z",
        "timeliness": "NT"
    }

    results = client.search(query)
    urls = results.get_download_urls()
    print(urls)

    >> ["http://gateway.prod.wekeo2.eu/hda-broker/api/v1/dataaccess/download/66b37374b6a632e1f39b3058", ...]

    inputs = Input(key="img1", url=urls[0])

The :class:`eocanvas.api.Config` object allows you to set two extra options:

#. whether the product must be decompressed before it is passed to SNAP
#. if uncompressed, what is the sub-path of the actual input file

Once all the inputs are ready, you can instantiate a process class:

.. code-block:: python

    from eocanvas.processes import SnapProcess

    process = SnapProcess(snap_graph=graph, eo_config=config, eo_input=inputs)

Processes can be submitted to the Serverless Functions API that will return a `Job` object,
used to check the status of the request. This can be done in two steps
(useful if you want a reference to the job) or in one go:

.. code-block:: python

    # Two steps
    job = process.submit()
    process.run(job)

    # Once you have the job, you can access the logs
    logs = job.logs

    # Otherwise you can directly call `run` and a job will be created under the hood
    process.run()

The `run` method will block until the job is completed and the results downloaded locally.

By default, results are downloaded in the current directory. A different one can be specified as well:

.. code-block:: python

    process.run(dowload_dir="mydir")


Data Tailor
-----------
A **Data Tailor** process is configured through an YAML object called a `Chain`.

Please refer to `official Data Tailor documentation <https://user.eumetsat.int/resources/user-guides/data-tailor-standalone-guide>`_ for further details.

Like SNAP, inputs are defined as placeholders and then passed in through :class:`eocanvas.api.Input` objects.

**EO Canvas** handles Data Tailor chains through a lightweight class taken from the `official EUMDAC library <https://user.eumetsat.int/resources/user-guides/eumetsat-data-access-client-eumdac-guide>`_
The :class:`eocanvas.datatailor.Chain` class can be instantiated from a file, or from a plain Python dictionary:


.. code-block:: python

    from eocanvas.datatailor import Chain

    # Load it from a file
    chain = Chain.from_file("olci_resample.yaml")

    # Load it from a dictionary
    d = {
        'product': 'OLL2WFR',
        'filter': {'bands': ['chl_nn']},
        'projection': 'geographic',
        'resample_resolution': [0.003, 0.003],
        'format': 'netcdf4'
    }
    chain = Chain(**d)

The inputs can be set similarly to SNAP

.. code-block:: python

    inputs = Input(key="img1", url="http://gateway.impl.wekeo2.eu/hda-broker/api/v1/dataaccess/download/66c357dcb6a632e1f39b3131")

Again, the url can be retrieved through the HDA Client as explained above.
Once all inputs are set, you'd call a `DataTailorProcess` just as SNAP:


.. code-block:: python

    from eocanvas.processes import DataTailorProcess

    process = DataTailorProcess(epct_chain=chain, epct_input=inputs)
    process.run()


Note that Data Tailor process does not accept a configuration object.

Commit message:

Updated documentation with Shear water

docs/source/usage.rst, after:

Usage
=====

As mentioned in the :doc:`quickstart </quickstart>` page, EO Canvas allows you to use both high-level objects or
to interact with the API in a more direct way.

The two fundamental concepts of the Serverless Functions service are *processes* and *jobs*.
A *process* describes either a SNAP or a Data Tailor computation.
A *job*, on the other hand, is a submission of a process to the API, and it's used to keep track of
its state, to retrieve the application logs and, finally, to download the results.

    .. note::
        Users are not limited to use their local hard-drive to download the results, nor the HDA as source of data.
        Look at the :doc:`external storage </external>` page to learn more about it.


To interact directly with the API, you can use the :class:`eocanvas.API` class:

.. code-block:: python

    from eocanvas import API, Credentials

    # Without any argument, this will automatically load your credentials from the ~/.hdarc file
    api = API()

    # but it's possible to pass username and password on the fly as well
    api = API(Credentials("[username]", "[password]"))

    processes = api.get_processes()
    print(processes)

    >> [Process(api=<eocanvas.api.API object at 0x7facd05a97e0>, process_id='snap-function', ...]

The available processes are predefined. New tools or custom functions might be added in future.

Process inputs must be configured before submitting them. **SNAP** and **Data Tailor** has similar but different sets of inputs.

SNAP
----
A **SNAP** process is configured through an XML object called a `Graph`. Such graph contains nodes for the inputs.

Please refer to `official SNAP documentation <https://step.esa.int/main/doc/online-help/>`_ for further details.

Since SNAP is being executed remotely, those inputs are defined as placeholders and then passed in through :class:`eocanvas.api.Input` objects.

Extra configuration can be added using the :class:`eocanvas.api.ConfigOption` class.

**EO Canvas** handles graphs through an embedded version of `Snapista <https://snap-contrib.github.io/snapista/>`_.
*Snapista* requires a local SNAP instance to work, to which it can submit the graph.
The embedded version instead only allows to programmatically build or load the graph from an XML file. It also encodes it before it gets submitted to the API.

Generally speaking, having pre-cooked graphs is a better option. The `demo` directory contains some examples.

As already described in the :doc:`quickstart </quickstart>` page, a graph instance can be created by loading a local XML file:

.. code-block:: python

    from eocanvas.snap.graph import Graph

    graph = Graph.from_uri("olci_binding.xml")


Please note how the input node has been defined:

.. code-block:: xml

    <node id="Read">
      <operator>Read</operator>
      <sources/>
        <parameters class="com.bc.ceres.binding.dom.XppDomElement">
        <useAdvancedOptions>false</useAdvancedOptions>
        <file>$img1</file>
        <copyMetadata>true</copyMetadata>
        <bandNames>Oa01_reflectance,Oa01_reflectance_err,Oa02_reflectance,Oa02_reflectance_err,Oa03_reflectance,Oa03_reflectance_err,Oa04_reflectance,Oa04_reflectance_err,Oa05_reflectance,Oa05_reflectance_err,Oa06_reflectance,Oa06_reflectance_err,Oa07_reflectance,Oa07_reflectance_err,Oa08_reflectance,Oa08_reflectance_err,Oa09_reflectance,Oa09_reflectance_err,Oa10_reflectance,Oa10_reflectance_err,Oa11_reflectance,Oa11_reflectance_err,Oa12_reflectance,Oa12_reflectance_err,Oa16_reflectance,Oa16_reflectance_err,Oa17_reflectance,Oa17_reflectance_err,Oa18_reflectance,Oa18_reflectance_err,Oa21_reflectance,Oa21_reflectance_err,CHL_NN,CHL_NN_err,CHL_OC4ME,CHL_OC4ME_err,altitude,latitude,longitude,detector_index,FWHM_band_1,FWHM_band_2,FWHM_band_3,FWHM_band_4,FWHM_band_5,FWHM_band_6,FWHM_band_7,FWHM_band_8,FWHM_band_9,FWHM_band_10,FWHM_band_11,FWHM_band_12,FWHM_band_13,FWHM_band_14,FWHM_band_15,FWHM_band_16,FWHM_band_17,FWHM_band_18,FWHM_band_19,FWHM_band_20,FWHM_band_21,frame_offset,lambda0_band_1,lambda0_band_2,lambda0_band_3,lambda0_band_4,lambda0_band_5,lambda0_band_6,lambda0_band_7,lambda0_band_8,lambda0_band_9,lambda0_band_10,lambda0_band_11,lambda0_band_12,lambda0_band_13,lambda0_band_14,lambda0_band_15,lambda0_band_16,lambda0_band_17,lambda0_band_18,lambda0_band_19,lambda0_band_20,lambda0_band_21,solar_flux_band_1,solar_flux_band_2,solar_flux_band_3,solar_flux_band_4,solar_flux_band_5,solar_flux_band_6,solar_flux_band_7,solar_flux_band_8,solar_flux_band_9,solar_flux_band_10,solar_flux_band_11,solar_flux_band_12,solar_flux_band_13,solar_flux_band_14,solar_flux_band_15,solar_flux_band_16,solar_flux_band_17,solar_flux_band_18,solar_flux_band_19,solar_flux_band_20,solar_flux_band_21,ADG443_NN,ADG443_NN_err,IWV,IWV_err,PAR,PAR_err,KD490_M07,KD490_M07_err,TSM_NN,TSM_NN_err,A865,A865_err,T865,T865_err,WQSF_lsb,WQSF_msb</bandNames>
        <pixelRegion>0,0,4865,4091</pixelRegion>
        <maskNames>WQSF_lsb_INVALID,WQSF_lsb_WATER,WQSF_lsb_LAND,WQSF_lsb_CLOUD,WQSF_lsb_TURBID_ATM,WQSF_lsb_CLOUD_AMBIGUOUS,WQSF_lsb_CLOUD_MARGIN,WQSF_lsb_SNOW_ICE,WQSF_lsb_INLAND_WATER,WQSF_lsb_COASTLINE,WQSF_lsb_TIDAL,WQSF_lsb_COSMETIC,WQSF_lsb_SUSPECT,WQSF_lsb_HISOLZEN,WQSF_lsb_SATURATED,WQSF_lsb_MEGLINT,WQSF_lsb_HIGHGLINT,WQSF_lsb_WHITECAPS,WQSF_lsb_ADJAC,WQSF_lsb_WV_FAIL,WQSF_lsb_PAR_FAIL,WQSF_lsb_AC_FAIL,WQSF_lsb_OC4ME_FAIL,WQSF_lsb_OCNN_FAIL,WQSF_lsb_KDM_FAIL,WQSF_lsb_BPAC_ON,WQSF_lsb_WHITE_SCATT,WQSF_lsb_LOWRW,WQSF_lsb_HIGHRW,WQSF_msb_ANNOT_ANGSTROM,WQSF_msb_ANNOT_AERO_B,WQSF_msb_ANNOT_ABSO_D,WQSF_msb_ANNOT_ACLIM,WQSF_msb_ANNOT_ABSOA,WQSF_msb_ANNOT_MIXR1,WQSF_msb_ANNOT_DROUT,WQSF_msb_ANNOT_TAU06,WQSF_msb_RWNEG_O1,WQSF_msb_RWNEG_O2,WQSF_msb_RWNEG_O3,WQSF_msb_RWNEG_O4,WQSF_msb_RWNEG_O5,WQSF_msb_RWNEG_O6,WQSF_msb_RWNEG_O7,WQSF_msb_RWNEG_O8,WQSF_msb_RWNEG_O9,WQSF_msb_RWNEG_O10,WQSF_msb_RWNEG_O11,WQSF_msb_RWNEG_O12,WQSF_msb_RWNEG_O16,WQSF_msb_RWNEG_O17,WQSF_msb_RWNEG_O18,WQSF_msb_RWNEG_O21,WQSF_REFLECTANCE_RECOM,WQSF_CHL_OC4ME_RECOM,WQSF_KD490_M07_RECOM,WQSF_PAR_RECOM,WQSF_W_AER_RECOM,WQSF_CHL_NN_RECOM,WQSF_TSM_NN_RECOM,WQSF_ADG443_NN_RECOM,WQSF_IWV_RECOM</maskNames>
      </parameters>
    </node>

The *$img1* is an arbitrary placeholder and can be used to further configure the input:

.. code-block:: python

    from eocanvas.api import Input, Config, ConfigOption

    inputs = Input(key="img1", url="http://gateway.prod.wekeo2.eu/hda-broker/api/v1/dataaccess/download/66b37374b6a632e1f39b3058")
    config = Config(key="img1", options=ConfigOption(uncompress=True, sub_path="xfdumanifest.xml"))

Note that `img1` has been used as the key to configure the input. The dollar sign is only required in the graph.

The `url` parameter is a valid WEkEO HDA download link and can be retrieved by using the HDA Python client:

.. code-block:: python

    from hda import Client

    client = Client()

    query = {
        "dataset_id": "EO:EUM:DAT:SENTINEL-3:OL_2_WFR___",
        "dtstart": "2024-07-05T09:28:00.000Z",
        "dtend": "2024-07-05T09:30:00.000Z",
        "timeliness": "NT"
    }

    results = client.search(query)
    urls = results.get_download_urls()
    print(urls)

    >> ["http://gateway.prod.wekeo2.eu/hda-broker/api/v1/dataaccess/download/66b37374b6a632e1f39b3058", ...]

    inputs = Input(key="img1", url=urls[0])

The :class:`eocanvas.api.Config` object allows you to set two extra options:

#. whether the product must be decompressed before it is passed to SNAP
#. if uncompressed, what is the sub-path of the actual input file

Once all the inputs are ready, you can instantiate a process class:

.. code-block:: python

    from eocanvas.processes import SnapProcess

    process = SnapProcess(snap_graph=graph, eo_config=config, eo_input=inputs)

Processes can be submitted to the Serverless Functions API that will return a `Job` object,
used to check the status of the request. This can be done in two steps
(useful if you want a reference to the job) or in one go:

.. code-block:: python

    # Two steps
    job = process.submit()
    process.run(job)

    # Once you have the job, you can access the logs
    logs = job.logs

    # Otherwise you can directly call `run` and a job will be created under the hood
    process.run()

The `run` method will block until the job is completed and the results downloaded locally.

By default, results are downloaded in the current directory. A different one can be specified as well:

.. code-block:: python

    process.run(dowload_dir="mydir")


Data Tailor
-----------
A **Data Tailor** process is configured through an YAML object called a `Chain`.

Please refer to `official Data Tailor documentation <https://user.eumetsat.int/resources/user-guides/data-tailor-standalone-guide>`_ for further details.

Like SNAP, inputs are defined as placeholders and then passed in through :class:`eocanvas.api.Input` objects.

**EO Canvas** handles Data Tailor chains through a lightweight class taken from the `official EUMDAC library <https://user.eumetsat.int/resources/user-guides/eumetsat-data-access-client-eumdac-guide>`_
The :class:`eocanvas.datatailor.Chain` class can be instantiated from a file, or from a plain Python dictionary:


.. code-block:: python

    from eocanvas.datatailor import Chain

    # Load it from a file
    chain = Chain.from_file("olci_resample.yaml")

    # Load it from a dictionary
    d = {
        'product': 'OLL2WFR',
        'filter': {'bands': ['chl_nn']},
        'projection': 'geographic',
        'resample_resolution': [0.003, 0.003],
        'format': 'netcdf4'
    }
    chain = Chain(**d)

The inputs can be set similarly to SNAP

.. code-block:: python

    inputs = Input(key="img1", url="http://gateway.impl.wekeo2.eu/hda-broker/api/v1/dataaccess/download/66c357dcb6a632e1f39b3131")

Again, the url can be retrieved through the HDA Client as explained above.
Once all inputs are set, you'd call a `DataTailorProcess` just as SNAP:


.. code-block:: python

    from eocanvas.processes import DataTailorProcess

    process = DataTailorProcess(epct_chain=chain, epct_input=inputs)
    process.run()


Data Tailor accepts a configuration paramater as well, similarly to SNAP.
Please refer to the :class:`eocanvas.processes.DataTailorProcess` class.


Shear Water
-----------
Shearwater is a simple demo process to show how other systems can be integrated into the API.
The interface is quite simple, as it only accepts three parameters.

Keep in mind that, at the moment, **Sindian** is the only valid value for the *area* parameter-

.. code:: python

    from eocanvas.processes import ShearWaterProcess

    # No need to setup the input through other objects
    process = ShearWaterProcess(area="Sindian", start_day="2021-01-01", end_day="2021-01-02")
    process.run()
